README.md, before:

# Pandas Repo Explorer
A project that uses Python, GitHub RESTful API, BeautifulSoup (a web scraping library), PostgreSQL(psycopg2) and ironically Pandas library to build a repository explorer that provide insights on [Pandas repository](https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas). The code in this repository, however, could be used to explore any GitHub repository.

# Necessary installations for running the code
```
pip3 install plotly
pip3 install psycopg2
pip3 install beautifulsoup4
```

# Running the Code

### **Step 1:** Generating JSON files by callin GitHub RESTful API endpoints
```cd generate_json_data_script/ ```

```python3 generate_json_data_files.py ```

The script calls 3 endpoints (issues, commits, contributors) and generate the following files:
```
issues_and_pulls.json
commits.json
contributors.json
```
in the **json_response** directory.

*Note*: https://api.github.com/repos/{username}/{repo_name}/issues  fetches both issues and pull requests so I didn't call *pulls* endpoint. Instead, I seperated them later during data pre-processing step.

### **Step 2:**  Data pre-processing and file conversion from JSON to CSV.

``` cd json_to_csv_script/ ```

```python3 commits_json_to_csv.py```

```python3 contributors_json_to_csv.py```

```python3 milestones_json_to_csv.py```

```python3 issues_and_pulls_json_to_csv.py```

This will generate the following .csv files
```
commits.csv
contributors.csv
issues.csv
pulls.csv
```
in the **csv_files** directory.

### **Step 3:** Creating tables in a postgreSQL database 

Set up a postgreSQL database and run the following command:

``` psql -d {database_name}```

```\i create_tables/all_tables.sql```

This will create the following tables in your database based on the above schema.
```
commits
contributors
issues
milestones
pulls
issues_label
pulls_label
```
Check out below to learn more about the schema design and the columns in each of those tables.

# Repository Schema Design

All the table names and column names in the designed schema are pretty much self-explainatory. The relations between tables are shown with an arrow. 

![GitHub Repo Schema Design](schema_diagram/github_repo_schema_diagram_final.png)


# Schema test with the sample questions given in the assignment file

The following Jupyter Notebook file demonstrates that the above schema design could find answers to the sample SQL questions provided in the assignment file.

```eda_script/sample_sql_questions_test.ipynb```

# Exploratory Data Analysis

The following Jupyter Notebook file performs exploratory data analysis on the Pandas repository with the collected data.

```eda_script/pandas_analysis.ipynb```

# Repository Overview

The following script implements a class that fetches the basic overview of the repo like number of stars, number of forks from the repository home page with a single API call.

```repo_overview_script/repo_overview.py```

# Activity Report

The following file is an activity report that breifly summarizes the findings and insights on Pandas repository.

```report/pandas_activity_report.pdf```

Commit message:

json information updated in the README file

README.md, after:

# Pandas Repo Explorer
A project that uses Python, GitHub RESTful API, BeautifulSoup (a web scraping library), PostgreSQL(psycopg2) and ironically Pandas library to build a repository explorer that provide insights on [Pandas repository](https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas). The code in this repository, however, could be used to explore any GitHub repository.

# Necessary installations for running the code
```
pip3 install plotly
pip3 install psycopg2
pip3 install beautifulsoup4
```

# Running the Code

### **Step 1:** Generating JSON files by callin GitHub RESTful API endpoints
```cd generate_json_data_script/ ```

```python3 generate_json_data_files.py ```

The script calls 3 endpoints (issues, commits, contributors) and generate the following files:
```
issues_and_pulls.json
commits.json
contributors.json
```
in the **json_response** directory.

*Note*: https://api.github.com/repos/{username}/{repo_name}/issues  fetches both issues and pull requests so I didn't call *pulls* endpoint. Instead, I seperated them later during data pre-processing step.

Also note: I haven't included issues_and_pulls.json and commits.json file in the repo because of large file size.

### **Step 2:**  Data pre-processing and file conversion from JSON to CSV.

``` cd json_to_csv_script/ ```

```python3 commits_json_to_csv.py```

```python3 contributors_json_to_csv.py```

```python3 milestones_json_to_csv.py```

```python3 issues_and_pulls_json_to_csv.py```

This will generate the following .csv files
```
commits.csv
contributors.csv
issues.csv
pulls.csv
milestone.csv
```
in the **csv_files** directory.

### **Step 3:** Creating tables in a postgreSQL database 

Set up a postgreSQL database and run the following command:

``` psql -d {database_name}```

```\i create_tables/all_tables.sql```

This will create the following tables in your database based on the above schema.
```
commits
contributors
issues
milestones
pulls
issues_label
pulls_label
```
Check out below to learn more about the schema design and the columns in each of those tables.

# Repository Schema Design

All the table names and column names in the designed schema are pretty much self-explainatory. The relations between tables are shown with an arrow. 

![GitHub Repo Schema Design](schema_diagram/github_repo_schema_diagram_final.png)


# Schema test with the sample questions given in the assignment file

The following Jupyter Notebook file demonstrates that the above schema design could find answers to the sample SQL questions provided in the assignment file.

```eda_script/sample_sql_questions_test.ipynb```

# Exploratory Data Analysis

The following Jupyter Notebook file performs exploratory data analysis on the Pandas repository with the collected data.

```eda_script/pandas_analysis.ipynb```

# Repository Overview

The following script implements a class that fetches the basic overview of the repo like number of stars, number of forks from the repository home page with a single API call.

```repo_overview_script/repo_overview.py```

# Activity Report

The following file is an activity report that breifly summarizes the findings and insights on Pandas repository.

```report/pandas_activity_report.pdf```
